System requirements
===================

Linux and MacOS X can be used to successfully deploy GigaDB. It is developed
using Yii (http://www.yiiframework.com) and so a copy of this PHP framework
is required on your server. GigaDB also relies on an installation of
PostgreSQL (http://www.postgresql.org) which is used as a database for
storing information about the datasets it hosts. An installation of Sphinx
(http://sphinxsearch.com) is required for the text searching functionality
within GigaDB. A web server is, of course, required to host the GigaDB web
site. The production service of GigaDb uses Apache.


Installing GigaDB dependencies
==============================

Yii PHP Framework

Yii can be downloaded from http://www.yiiframework.com. The production
version of GigaDB is currently using Yii version 1.1.10. The path to Yii
should be declared in the index.php file.

PostgreSQL

GigaDB requires a database hosted by the PostgreSQL relational database
management system. The database should be initialised with the schema
available in the gigadb-cogini.schema.sql file from the protected/data folder
. Provide the username and password for accessing this database in the build
.properties file.

Sphinx

Installation and set up instructions for Sphinx is available from
http://sphinxsearch.com/docs/current.html. The text searching functionality
provided by Sphinx requires a set of index files. These files can be created
using the sphinx.conf file.

Apache

For linux systems, Apache can be installed using a package manager on the
command line, e.g. sudo apt-get install apache2 on Ubuntu. A directory where
the source files for GigaDB will be located has to be configured so that it is
accessible by Apache. This can be achieved by providing Apache with a gigadb
.conf file with the following example contents configured to your platform:

 <VirtualHost *:80>
     ServerAdmin joebloggs@here.com
     DocumentRoot /var/www/hosts/gigadb.cogini.com/htdocs
     ServerName gigadb-staging.cogini.com
     ErrorLog /var/www/hosts/gigadb.cogini.com/logs/error.log
     CustomLog /var/www/hosts/gigadb.cogini.com/logs/access.log combined

      <Directory "/var/www/hosts/gigadb.cogini.com/htdocs">

         Options MultiViews FollowSymLinks -Indexes
         Order allow,deny
         Allow from all

         RewriteEngine on
         RewriteBase /

         # Use a common favicon for everything
         RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !^/favicon\.ico$
         RewriteRule favicon /favicon.ico [L,R=301]

         # If a directory or a file exists, use it directly
         RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -s [OR]
         RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -l [OR]
         RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
         RewriteRule ^.*$ - [NC,L]

         # Otherwise forward it to index.php
         RewriteRule ^.*$ index.php [NC,L]

     </Directory>
 </VirtualHost>

This file should be located in the /etc/apache2/conf.d folder.


GigaDB source
=============

The source distribution of GigaDB has the following directory layout:

gigadb-cogini
   |
   +--- README.md, INSTALL.txt, LICENSE //basic information
   |
   +--- build.xml, build.properties // Build file for Ant and configuration info
   |
   +--- index.php, favicon.ico, sitemap.xml // GigaDB web application files
   |
   +--- conf // contains scripts to be configured to access database, sphinx
   |
   +--- css // contains css files required for the GigaDB website
   |
   +--- files // contains static files served by GigaDB
   |
   +--- js // contains javascript file required by GigaDB
   |
   +--- less // contains leaner CSS files
   |
   +--- lib // contains jar files required for building GigaDB by Apache Ant
   |
   +--- protected // contains GigaDB application files
   |    |
   |    +--- commands  // contains customized 'yiic' commands
   |    |
   |    +--- components  // contains reusable user components
   |    |
   |    +--- config // contains configuration files
   |    |
   |    +--- controllers // contains controller class files
   |    |
   |    +--- data // contains schemas for setting up the Postgresql database
   |    |
   |    +--- doc // contains information for installing GigaDB dependencies
   |    |
   |    +--- extensions // contains third-party Yii extensions
   |    |
   |    +--- helpers //  can delete this?
   |    |
   |    +--- messages // contains Chinese translations of GigaDB text
   |    |
   |    +--- models // contains PHP classes representing database tables
   |    |
   |    +--- schema // can delete this?
   |    |
   |    +--- scripts // contains executables for maintaining GigaDB
   |    |
   |    +--- tests // can delete this?
   |    |
   |    +--- vendors // not sure what these files do
   |    |
   |    +--- views // contains controller view and layout files
   |
   +--- sphinx // contains configuration files for Sphinx
   |
   +--- themes // can delete this


Building and starting GigaDB
============================

Apache Ant (http://ant.apache.org) is required to build GigaDB. The file,
build.properties, should be edited according to your configuration details
for your platform.

Once Ant is installed, typing "ant build-local" on the command line prompt
should activate the building process for GigaDB. This build of GigaDB is
located in the build folder, the contents of which should be copied into the
web server directory you have configured above. Once these files are in place
then GigaDB should be visible on your web browser after Apache is restarted.

